now if you're thinking of coming to
Australia the things you probably dream
about have a Sun the sand the sea and
the surf and the best ways in the
country can be found here at Torquay in
the state of Victoria so who better to
ask about the best waves in the world
than the best surfers in the world at
the Rip Curl Pro the Wimbledon of
professional surfing and they're
competing just over there
so what is it about tolki and more
specifically Bells Beach that makes it
so special maybe the most sought-after
trophy and surfing just what it
symbolizes the tradition of the event
the length of events running stuff so
bring that thing again was pretty
awesome I wasn't sure if I was gonna get
one of those things again it's been a
long time all that speed that you can
generate going into the ball just allows
you to really go hard into your turns
and just the natural amphitheater the of
the wave you are the spot itself makes
it such an incredible event to watch
there's a great deal of history around
this area with surfing and it's one of
those rural places to come there's
beautiful beaches beautiful landscape
and the best thing about it is the waves
are really good too oh there's a lot of
special things about it there's just
this energy that this wave has and just
something about walking down the stairs
and hearing the you know ac/dc ELLs
bells song and you know like ringing
that bell and the wave is just you know
it's it's a really really fun wave and
just real high performance and this con
has been running for so long it's just
more of those
to win and just be a part of what talk
knees got something for everyone intent
to surf you know you've got Jen Jack and
protein-based which is good for
beginners
you've got Bells Beach and we can pop
with a great for experienced surfers and
on any given day it should be like
anywhere in the water can be dead flat
or it could be huge so on there's
something for everyone
now the competition showcases the
world's top male surfers and draws up to
20,000 spectators and is the
longest-running professional surfing
competition on the tour
not only is Bells Beach Australia surf
capital and birthplace of the famous Rip
Curl surfing brand but it's also near a
host of Aussie icons it positioned at
the start of the great ocean road and
also just a 90 minute drive from the
fabulous city of Melbourne and its
vibrant nightlife so what advice do the
experts have for those of us who are new
to the sport go find a good surf school
around the place if you've no sir
certified to scatter the run of their
local surf shops and ask down here's a
good choice to get you down there and if
you're just starting out you know you
your best hanging down there and a jam
jar it's a little bit mellower a little
bit softer and you know mainly ol
beginners hang out there and if you kind
of try to take on the bills ball
straightaway and you didn't really know
what you were doing they're probably you
wouldn't get too far and you'd probably
make a few enemies as well so wait till
you raise the bar a little and you got
your level up and then hit hit out here
those uh you know like it's always good
to start off on longer boards make
particularly ones that are either saw
they're lightweight and
you know usually like it helps to like
have somebody kind of guide you either
having a surf tour guide or someone that
can give you a lesson to start you off
with or you know just a friendly surfer
so you've seen the waves and you've seen
the moves but here's something for those
who might need a bit more convincing the
professional surf has got the best life
in the world they travel around to the
best wave locations in the world get
paid a whole stack load of green to do
it they got all the best looking women
and they had free stuff all day every
day and I mean what better way to pass
the time just surfing all day